Machine Learning:

Features/Attributes: anything which is able to help distinguish.

A ML algo takes features as input and gives labels as
output.

ML algo of 2 types:

1. Supervised Learning
   Machine knows something beforehand
   Classification and Regression

2. Unsupervised Learning
   All machine has the data. No features and Labels.
   Clustering and Association

Steps in a Typical ML problem

1. Problem Identification
2. Data Collection and Validation
3. Model Building
4. Feedback

Linear Regression Model

Multiple Regression Model
features = independent variables
labels = dependent variables

explained lineaar regression
derivation with Mean Square Error and then minima, then finding weights(w0, w1, w2...) and intercepts/biases, and then verifying it with linear regression model on python => refer linear_regression.py and corresponding video
? find loss function use in linear regression

linear_regression.py

Loss functions and Gradient Descent

Stochastic Gradient Descent: Batch Size=1
Gradient Descent: Batch Size= full dataset
Mini Gradient Descent: n-> chosen by the data scientist

? Goldilocks Learning Rate

<!-- ------------------------------------------------- -->

supervised learning CLASSIFICATION:
(inme se kya hai, dog or car, spam or not, etc.)
That is, classifying

Here a decision boundary is created

k_nearest_neighbor.py

curly decision boundary is not a good feature since, it works
on existing data points which the spammer may change by change
features at his/her end.
aisa video mai bola
pr ye cheez to hr case mai valid hai naa?

KNN
cons:
less to no focus on training, more on testing
find distance (euclidean/ etc.)
slow

pros:
simple implementation

<!-- ------------------------------------------- -->

OverFitting and UnderFitting

Overfitting: Low Training Error but High Testing error
Underfitting: High Training Error and High Testing error

Methods of Handling overfitting

1. resampling (selecting random training and testing data)
2. holding a validation dataset
   (remove some data from dataset to use for testing later)

<!-- ------------------------------------------- -->

Logistic Regression is a Classifier?

it predicts probability.
it is an algorithm of generalised linear model class.

sigmoid function.
something about log of odds,
diff. values of loss? func for y=0 and y=1

cannot use Mean Square Error in logistic regression,
as we can get stuck on local minima which are present
in this data.
? local minima to linear regression mai bhi to honge naa?

logistic_regression.py

12:00 timestamp on 19 vid
sigma theta linear to logistic


end to end project:

Finding the type of Model to build:
- is it SUPERVISED, UNSUPERVISED or REINFORCEMENT LEARNING?
- is it a CLASSIFICATION task or REGRESSION task?
- is it BATCH LEARNING or ONLINE LEARNING TECHNIQUE?